Automotive Toolbox documentation.txt

Chris Guarino

CS50 Final Project 2015

    For my CS50 final project I decided to make a automotive toolbox of sorts that consists of three specialty
calculations that I personally use on a regular basis. I have built a number of custom cars for a variety of 
applications, in all cases, there is a large amount of planning and math needed to make sure that things will work
the way they are intended to for a purpose built build. In this instance, I have created three calculators that utilize 
formulas to compensate for tire size changes, final drive (rear-axle) ratio changes, and to check engine rpm at a desired
top speed. They have all been implemented into a single web page. I hosted the webpage locally on the cs50 appliance 
via vhosts just like pset7 and pset8. Start by heading to "final-project/" in the appliance via chrome.

    The first of the three calculators is the "Rear Gear Ratio Correction". This formula is used to find the new gear ratio
needed to keep a vehicles final drive ratio to OEM specs. Normally, when a vehicle's tires are altered to perhaps a larger
diameter size (typically for say a lifted off-road truck) there is in inherent side effect. By adding larger diameter tires
you have changed the final drive ratio because the new larger tires now do not have to spin as many times as they did
before to cover the same amount of distance. This in turn lowers the amount of engine torque being put to the ground
causing poor acceleration, adds to a vehicles top speed (which can be dangerous under certain circumstances), and more 
problematically causes your speedometer to be off because it now has an invalid wheel speed input going into its own mph
computer algorithm that further compounds the difference the faster you go. (There are also more complex problems that can
show their face under certain circumstances as well IE: ABS and Traction Control failures) One way to correct this is to 
compensate your rear gear axle ratio for your newfound larger wheels.

    So with that said, here's how the "Rear Gear Ratio Correction" works. You simply input your original tire diameter size 
(OEM Tire Size), then input your new tire diameter size (NEW Tire Size); lastly input your original rear gear axle ratio
(OEM Gear Ratio). (If by chance you are wondering why there are only select values, it is because those are the only
ratios rear gears are made in.) Once all fields have been filled, click submit. Once submit is clicked the proper gearing 
needed for your application will be presented to you! The value is the gearing that most closely matches the available
gear sets for purchase in the automotive market.

    Next, is the "MPH Program Correction". This is a formula used to show how far your speedometer will be off at various speeds
if the tire diameter is changed on a vehicle and the axle ratio has not been compensated for as previously mentioned.
This information is useful because if for some reason re-gearing a vehicle's axle is not desired/wanted you can take the change
in the speedometer and hardcode the difference into the vehicles engine controller to ensure that it is indeed getting the correct
compensated input for wheel speed. Simply input your original tire diameter size (OEM Tire Size), then input your new tire 
diameter size (NEW Tire Size), lastly input the speed to be checked. Click submit, once submit is click your actual speed will be 
revealed. For reprogramming a vehicle's engine controller compare your tire sizes and a speed of 1 mph. Your actual speed will now be
some float of 1 (IE 1.04566 mph). The difference of the two is the value that needs to be compensated for every 1 mph in the
vehicle engine controller. Feel free to perform the same test, but change 1 mph to 180 mph and see how a small difference at 1 mph
compounds into a large difference. (The larger the tire size delta, the worse the problem gets with speed.)

    Lastly, is the "Engine RPM At Speed". This is a formula used to check engine rpm based on the axle gear ratio, tire diameter 
size, vehicle speed, and a transmission ratio of 1:1. (This is 4th gear in a 5 or 6 speed transmission, typical of modern 
vehicles and the gear that matters at a imagined top speed) This is an important formula to reference based on the mentioned 
parameters because if a vehicle has to go a desired speed, engine rpm could be a limitation based on tire size and gearing. 
For example, if a performance vehicle has to go 150 mph based on specific tire size/gearing and it is determined that 
the engine will be turning 12000 rpm, this could be a potential issue depending on the engine because most engines cannot turn 
12000 rpm.

    To use the "Engine RPM At Speed" calculator, input the final drive axle ratio (Gear Ratio), input the tire diameter (Tire Size),
and input the speed to be checked (Vehicle Speed). Once all fields have been filled, click submit. Once submit is clicked the 
engine rpm at that speed and gearing will be presented to you.

    In conclusion, these calculators are all used to get general starting points for data when designing a vehicle drivetrain. 
Often times it is a combination of all three of these formulas that provide a solution. However, this is a showcase of the basics on 
finding some of the needed calculations. It is my intention to use these examples as a reference/teaching tool for others. 

That concludes my CS50 final project. I hope it was of interest to you!





